New docs (#582)
leancodepl/corelibrary: docs/cqrs/pipeline/index.md

# Pipeline

> The LeanCode CoreLibrary utilizes ASP.NET middlewares to create customized pipelines for handling requests and responses. This section intends to showcase the setup of a basic pipeline and explore its inner workings.

Reviewer: We're in context of the CQRS pipelines, not arbitrary pipelines. I would not use "requests" and "responses" here.

## Packages

| Package | Link | Application in section |
| --- | ----------- | ----------- |
| LeanCode.CQRS.AspNetCore | [![NuGet version (LeanCode.CQRS.AspNetCore)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/LeanCode.CQRS.AspNetCore.svg?style=flat-square&logo=nuget)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/LeanCode.CQRS.AspNetCore/8.0.2260-preview/) | Configuration |
| LeanCode.CQRS.MassTransitRelay | [![NuGet version (LeanCode.CQRS.MassTransitRelay)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/LeanCode.CQRS.MassTransitRelay.svg?style=flat-square&logo=nuget)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/LeanCode.CQRS.MassTransitRelay/8.0.2260-preview/) | MassTransit related middlewares |

## Configuration

> To establish LeanCode CoreLibrary pipelines, the [MapRemoteCqrs(...)] method from `LeanCode.CQRS.AspNetCore` package needs to be invoked after calling the `UseEndpoints(...)` method on the `IApplicationBuilder`. In the following example, [MapRemoteCqrs(...)] is configured to handle:

Reviewer 2: This sentence feels awkward. Maybe sth like (rough scratch, nothing final):

CQRS objects can only be registered in the ASP.NET request pipeline via endpoint routing. To register use `IEndpointRouteBuilder.MapRemoteCqrs` extension methods (note that it's not the same as `UseEndpoints` as with the minimal startup you can call it directly). In `MapRemoteCqrs` you can configure the inner cqrs requests pipeline.

Also, I'd extend this sample to also include `IServceCollection.AddCQRS` method to make it self contained.

> CQRS objects can only be registered in the ASP.NET request pipeline via endpoint routing. To register use `IEndpointRouteBuilder.MapRemoteCqrs(...)` extension method. In `MapRemoteCqrs(...)` you can configure the inner cqrs requests pipeline. In the following example, app is configured to handle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CQRS objects can only be registered in the ASP.NET request pipeline via endpoint routing. To register use `IEndpointRouteBuilder.MapRemoteCqrs(...)` extension method. In `MapRemoteCqrs(...)` you can configure the inner CQRS pipeline. In the following example, app is configured to handle:
```

                            .PublishEvents();

                        cqrs.Queries = c =>
                            c.CQRSTrace()
                            .Secure();

                        cqrs.Operations = c =>
                            c.CQRSTrace()
                            .Secure()
                            .CommitTransaction<CoreDbContext>()
                            .PublishEvents();
                    }
                );
            });
    }
```

In this code snippet, you can specify which middlewares to use for handling commands, queries, and operations. Several middlewares are added in the example:

| Method                           | Middleware                             | Responsibility              |
|------------------------------- |--------------------------------------- |---------------------------- |
| [CQRSTrace()]                  | [CQRSTracingMiddleware]                | Tracing                     |
| [Secure()]                     | [CQRSSecurityMiddleware]               | Authorization               |
| [Validate()]                   | [CQRSValidationMiddleware]             | Validation                  |

> | [CommitTransaction&lt;T&gt;()]  | [CommitDatabaseTransactionMiddleware]  | Saving changes on database  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [CommitTransaction&lt;T&gt;()]  | [CommitDatabaseTransactionMiddleware]  | Saves changes to the database  |
```

Author: It's responsibility section so `Saving`

> | [PublishEvents()]              | [EventsPublisherMiddleware]            | Publishing domain events    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [PublishEvents()]              | [EventsPublisherMiddleware]            | Publishing domain events to MassTransit    |
```

> The order in which these middlewares are added determines the sequence of execution. Additionally, there are a few other middlewares provided by library that can be incorporated into CQRS pipeline, although they are not covered in this basic example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order in which these middlewares are added determines the sequence of execution.

### Other middlewares
Additionally, there are a few other middlewares provided by library that can be incorporated into CQRS pipeline, although they are not covered in this basic example:
```

Reviewer: Plus, it would be good to describe how the middlewares are run - saying "sequence" is too vague. We can point to ASP.NET Core documentation on middlewares as an explanation TBH.

## Configuration

> CQRS objects can only be registered in the ASP.NET request pipeline via endpoint routing. To register use `IEndpointRouteBuilder.MapRemoteCqrs(...)` extension method (this differs from `UseEndpoints(...)`, as within minimal startup, you can directly invoke it). In `MapRemoteCqrs(...)` you can configure the inner cqrs requests pipeline. In the following example, app is configured to handle:

Reviewer 2: `(this differs from UseEndpoints(...), as within minimal startup, you can directly invoke it)` oh - this one was just a side note, shouldn't make it to the final docs.
